so what we're going to do in this live
class is IELTS academic writing task one
we're going to focus on grammar and
specifically I'm going to just show you
what band 9 grandma looks like okay so
the other day when I took the IELTS this
is what I saw on my test paper I was
faced with three different line graphs
okay I had not prepared for three
different line graphs I didn't even know
it was possible to get three different
line graphs but anyway it was it was it
was confronting the one thing that I'm
good at is grammar I have no problem
with grammar right native speaker but
also I've been teaching grammar for a
long time so I'm very aware of how
grammar works and it is very mysterious
and very confusing cool so the mission
for this class is for you to see
accurate grammar in use okay by the way
if you need help with your grammar for
IELTS or PT e or Ont or TOEFL go to
youtube and search eetu learn English
because we have grammar lessons piling
up there before we begin I want to tell
you about how you are scored because
that's what matters and if you know how
you're scored you can write your
description in a way that will satisfy
the examiners so you're scored on four
things firstly you've scored on your
description okay which means did you
describe those three line graphs and did
you describe them accurately and did you
write about the important information in
those three line graphs for example
second thing you scored on is structure
did you have a summary sentence a
description and did you also compare
data and did you do this in a way where
it flowed very beautifully from
beginning to end the third thing your
scored on is vocabulary and really this
is about being precise having precise
you
using precise vocabulary the fourth
thing is grammar and this is about
accuracy because even little mistakes
like if you make a mistake with that and
you write aa for example or you are you
write no article that's going to be a
problem okay so what we're going to do
is focus on this one here grammar the
first thing I want to look at a verbs I
want to look at verbs because first of
all every sentence in English has a verb
but verbs are the most important part of
the sentence they kind of hold the
sentence together they usually sit in
the middle between the subject and the
object and they're critical to get right
they're critical to get right in terms
of the tense which one you use like
present simple or present continuous of
whatever I'll show you that they also
have to be right according to the
subject so if there's one subject it
will change the verb for example so I'll
show you that as well let's have a look
at verbs but before we do let's in order
to get the tense right in order to get
the tense right have a look at this 2002
2003 2004 2005 when was this was this
the past was this the present or was
this I'm giving it away you can see that
this is in the past the x-axis is in the
past so that's going to do something to
our verbs it's going to make us write in
such a way for example when we say the
verb increase it's in 2002 we're gonna
have to say increased or fell there's an
e rank below in anyway let me show you
let me just show you all the beautiful
verbs in this writing here forget this
one let's let's lips let's go to here
first because this this is past tense so
Australia's trade with China was
fluctuated fell not fall that's present
simple fell past tense was increased
was increased increased showed grew
there's an irregular one plateaued and
grew again so you can see all of these
verbs because of the x-axis is in the
past we're going to put all of our
descriptions and all of our comparisons
we're going to use a simple past tense
verb I can't see any reason to use a
present perfect or it is possible it is
possible but this particular one that I
wrote only required past simple except
for this one exception I'm going to show
you right at the beginning when we write
our summary this first verb is going to
be present simple the line graphs
represent because the line graphs
represented would be wrong because it's
present simple they're continuing to
represent the line graphs represent how
much Australia imported and exported
whoops that's another verb there that I
forgot to do but you can see the Eadie
ending cool I don't want to labor that
too much but I do just want to say that
you have to get your verbs right they're
extremely important and from this
example right here well we just have two
types and really just one type the past
simple but I'll be interested to know if
you're using other verbs as well but
it's about it's about accuracy all right
subjects okay let's get the subjects of
the sentence right because also what
you're going to find is the subject
influences that verb so the line graphs
more than one how many were there there
were three so the line graphs represent
no ass okay Australia imported here's
another subject you start to see the
subject verb relationship here the line
graphs represents
Australia imported Australia's trade
with China was there's the verb
there's the subject it's one two three
four words both imports and exports
fluctuated imports fell exports
increased here's a different one this is
sort of irregular there was a steady
increase so this is actually the verb
before the subject only because we're
using that there was then the subject
but forget about that one exports
increased Australia's trade with the
term with the USA was imports increased
exports increased both imports from and
exports to Japan both showed growth
exports grew they here's a pronoun I
guess I'm talking about exports here
because I'm saying it again
they exports plateaued imports from
Japan grew sometimes when you're doing
academic writing task 1 it's hard to
know what the subject is okay let's just
quickly go back and look at those graphs
because once you know what the subjects
going to be then it makes your life a
lot easier because you're just gonna go
subject verb it won't always be that
simple there might be an adverb or
something like that but you need to know
what the subject is okay so you look at
look at this graph here the trade with
China so we've got imports and exports
now they would make excellent subjects
what would not make a good subject is
2002 what would not make a good subject
is five billion dollars because
basically the subject does something the
subject does that's the verb the subject
does something so if we say imports
well what did in ports do well let's
look at the blue line imports did what
well they they decreased or
they plummet it or they fell and then
from here what did imports do that's the
subject inputs
well they grew steadily if we look over
here with with actually look let's think
about trade with the USA as the subject
because that would be a good overall if
we're generally describing this trade
with the USA overall increased trade
with the USA as the subject increased
but then you can go to the specific
subject of imports and exports and what
did they do
well increase/decrease fell plummeted
fluctuated you name it you choose you
verb that's how it works
subjects so yes cool next one this is
related to subjects and this is one that
well a lot of people get wrong and this
is articles but the good thing to know
about articles in academic writing task
1 well for my 1 there were a very few I
have up here I have that line graphs
because we're referring to specific line
graphs those 3 line graphs the line
graphs and we're referring to more than
one uh uh uh steady increase and
increase a steady increase the USA well
that's just because it's the USA it's a
specific place it's just a name like the
UK or the USA a high increase to a high
so really I've only got four articles
here that I could find anyway they're
hard to spot sometimes the ah da and up
but here's the thing with articles is
when do you not use an article well
let's look at that as well because
that's just as important for accuracy
look here at the word Japan
we don't say both imports from and
exports to the Japan no it's not the
Japan it's just
Japan or here what why don't we just say
both the imports from and the exports to
both the and the well this is where to
be perfectly honest with you this is
where articles become kind of crazily
difficult anyway check out e to learn
English in YouTube type that in there's
heaps of lessons there about grammar for
IELTS TOEFL PTO et cool let's push on
though adjectives this when you're doing
writing tasks to and you're writing your
essay you will use a lot more adjectives
than I have used here in my just my
academic description because it's a well
it's a description that should use
adjectives but it doesn't really it's
really academic writing task 1 is about
subjects verbs and to a lesser extent
adverbs which I'll show you next but
nevertheless I've used some adjectives
but when you're doing writing tasks to
you we use a lot more adjectives and
you'll use really quite sophisticated
adjectives but let's look at this one
here so well Australian is an adjective
because there's the noun that it's
describing Australian dollars or it
could be Japanese or Chinese or American
okay I've got an adjective here erratic
it was quite erratic I've got a steady
increase ah increase there's the noun
here's the adjective a steady increase
ok I've said here that Australia's trade
with the USA was consistent
that's a nice adjective here it's close
to close is an adjective
both is an adjective and here right down
the bottom of also got a steady increase
I've got some nice ones but very few of
got erratic consistent steady
they're nice adjectives
these words are important for your
writing tasks one's really important now
this is very colorful so just bear with
me while I explain what these crazy
orange words are doing so I'm saying
that I could say that Australia's trade
with China was erratic but instead I
sort of decreased the intensity and said
it was quite erratic I could have said
it was really erratic or extremely
erratic but it wasn't so what these
words allow us to do is increase or
decrease the intensity of an adjective
or a verb we can say it was you know the
difference between that the imports
fluctuated slightly or the imports
fluctuated erratically usually these
adverbs have the ly ending they're
important here for accuracy they allow
us to be very precise about our
descriptions okay let's look at a few
more so we've got quiet erratic here
we've got imports fell from
approximately 4.3 billion what we're
doing here is if you remember the graphs
it wasn't you couldn't see exactly how
much money he exports what all the
imports were but so we can we can sort
of we can hedge our bets we can say it
was approximately or around 2.2 million
dollars or nearly 4.5 million around
against nearly around just over okay
then we've got some different ones so
these ones around approximately nearly
just over these are different ways of
saying well approximately or close to or
they allow us to because we can't be
exactly precise they allow us to say
that and the examiner go okay that's
good enough that's as close as you can
get
okay now there's a few more here let me
get rid of my red pen here
okay so decreasing slightly what else
have we got here again grew slightly and
finally we have this one here similarly
but that's kind of a different one that
I'll show you in a second alright if
we're talking about precision and
accuracy and writing a really high
scoring band nine responds prepositions
your prepositions have to be right they
have to be correct these are difficult
because they they really don't have any
meaning prepositions don't have meaning
what they do is they just create
grammatical sentences so what you have
to do is you have to just memorize them
according to what they're doing it's
kind of strange let me show you okay
it's getting very colorful that please
look at the purple ones here okay the
line graphs represent how much Australia
imported from and exported - okay so you
import from Japan and you export to
China right again here's another verb
preposition fell from a steady increase
to a number increased from okay in 2002
to nearly 4.5 billion dollars in 2003
before dropping to as a phrase in 2005
in 2004 at around two point seven five
billion dollars at dollars crazy right
trade with increased from just above one
point five billion dollars in 2002 to
close to two point five billion dollars
in 2004 before decreasing in 2005 here's
a phrase in comparison increased from
before falling - you can see there's
just well I mean I just used ones like
in from with - of before I haven't used
any crazy words though very common but
you need to know how they're used and I
could sit here all day and explain it to
you the best way is to read good sample
essays and see how the writer like
sample essays from e to language for
example see how the writer has used
these prepositions to bring all of those
sentences together and to show
relationships and to show where when
simple things like this it's it's tricky
stuff it's tricky stuff prepositions are
hard to get right
okay then well I'm probably a bit guilty
for not using many linking words a lot
of IELTS teachers will tell you that you
must use words like however and
therefore and as a result and moreover
and and in these types of linking words
you probably should because IELTS
examiner's like them me personally I
think I'll to Daan's overuse them and
one thing you need to be careful of is
only using a linking word if it is
correct or accurate or does the job that
you want it to do you can't just throw
in a however or throw in and therefore
it has to serve a purpose okay so let's
have a look at the purpose of these
linking words here and we're going to
start with then I'm gonna leave this
one's a bit different okay so this
happened then this happened that's fine
that works or what we can say here is
sorry imports increased in comparison
exports oh that should say decreased I
guess my fault my bad
that's what comparing does because you
have one side will increase the other
side will decrease or what's a better
word in contrast in comparison it's okay
actually let me explain why I did do
that and it's probably still right so we
have two of these which can be used here
I'm just comparing that's okay I can say
increase it's an ink priest the one that
you need to be careful of is this one
in contrast because with in comparison I
can say that this one increased and in
comparison this one increased even more
but when you're using in contrast you
have to say this one increased but this
in contrast this one decreased okay so
you can use in comparison further
increase an increase or decrease in
decrease but this one it has to show the
opposite so I'm actually right there and
luckily I've just corrected myself and
saved my integrity as a teacher
similarly this is a nice one similarly
okay so this increased by let's say by
two billion dollars and similarly the
imports increased by two billion dollars
whatever it is okay that's a nice way to
connect to things that are doing the
same thing similarly in comparison then
and this one is a bit of a phrase in
fact when you look at the IELTS the way
the IELTS examiner's look at your
writing and grammar specifically they
look at what's called collocations or
natural sounding language so it's not
basically what you're not doing is
translating from your language into
English what you need to do is you need
to write like a native speaker and to do
that you have to use particular word
combinations like an adjective now in
combination or of a preposition
combination that sound
that are commonly used for example so
let's look at these natural sounding
phrases so here is the one I showed you
before in terms of it's just a phrase
quite erratic a steady increase more
consistent decreasing slightly in
comparison showed growth grew slightly
and again a steady increase so what have
we got here well here we've got an
adverb adjective combination here we've
got an article adjective noun this is a
noun this is an adjective so that this
describes that now in a steady increase
again adjectives a more consistent are
this is one of those this is one of
those adjectives like happy happier
happiest but when you have the three
syllables you can't say consistent er
consistent issed more consistent is a
nicer way to say that or the only way
decreasing slightly in comparison show
growth etc and this one is the now now
if you see me make mistakes by the way
feel free to type into the comments
below
while you're there if you're on youtube
please click like share this video
around and click that little red button
to subscribe so you can watch these
videos as soon as we release them you'll
be notified on your mobile phone you'd
spend quality time on the bus watching
this instead of watching cat videos
which would be a good thing we're nearly
finished guys let's just recap what we
have looked at in this lesson well we
learned that you're scored on four
things you're scored on your quality of
your description whether you actually
described all those features of the
graphs you are scored on the structure
whether you had a summary a description
and compared the data and how well you
sequenced this you scored on your
vocabulary in terms of its precision and
finally what we looked at in this one
was grammar so
accurate your grandma was and we looked
at while we looked at verbs we looked at
subjects which influenced those verbs we
looked at articles remember that the
articles we looked at some adjectives I
only had a few you don't need to fill
your writing with adjectives importantly
we looked at adverbs slightly
approximately words like this we looked
at some hard ones like prepositions they
weren't they were tough they're the ones
that yeah well do check out that e to
learn English YouTube channel what else
did we look at then we looked at natural
sounding phrases and linking words so
all of these rules combined to create a
high-scoring academic writing task 1
I've already told you about this now if
you're interested we're going to run
some writing intensive live classes who
wants to go to an English language
school and drive across the city in the
middle of the night and you're tired
you've just finished work forget that
we've got something much more
interesting happening at the moment
starting on the 6th of November and if
you're watching this video after them
don't worry this will be happening again
and again we're going to be running a
live class intensive for one week in
that one week of 5 days before the big
IELTS exam we're going to be running
looking at IELTS academic writing task 1
on Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday
Friday line graphs pie charts tables
processes and the other one I forgot
note though bar charts we'll also be
looking at writing task 2 so on Monday
we'll do problem solution Tuesday
advantages/disadvantages Wednesday are
discussions Thursday double question and
Friday will do the other one which I've
forgotten we're also if you're Al's
general we'll also look at the different
letter types and we'll also look in this
intensive course at IELTS reading and
we'll go through all the different
question
so when you're there on test day and you
see true false not given you know
exactly what to do what to look for
these will all be live this would be
part of the package that you purchased
through e to language which will also
give you access to them all the content
on the website plus a PDF that you can
download and print bring to the live
classes and write your essays write your
academic writing task 1 so if you're
interested in that sign up to e to
language is a free user will send you an
email or if you're paid use that you'll
automatically be entered assisted
allowed in through these live classes
cool anyway so do check out that website
there that's all from me right now we're
going to do Q&A and I'll answer some
questions that you have all right let me
answer some of these questions I'm sorry
you didn't get to do much in this one I
just wanted to show you so just so
you'll be aware okay
don't me think more consistent ok needs
a thing to compare against that's a good
question let me have a look
where was that natural synthetic
phrasing is more consistent ok ok ok
this is a this is a good this is a good
point
somebody's pointed out here then I've
used this phrase here more consistent
without comparing it to something now
sometimes it's just implied it's implied
that it's comparing against this you
don't need to say it explicitly you can
I could have said Australia's trade with
the USA was more consistent than its
trade with China that's probably better
but in some ways more certainly more
comprehensive but I don't really need to
do it it's just implied that it's that
it's comparing against China here so
that's a it's a good question
[Music]
J what time does the intensive course
take place that's a good question so we
think academic writing task 1 will be at
6 p.m. Melbourne Sydney time academic
writing task 2 will be at 7:30 p.m.
Melbourne Sydney time and general will
be general and reading will be at 9 p.m.
at Melbourne Sydney time is a good
question relating back to academic
writing task 1 do we need to write a
conclusion for our writing task 1 the
answer is no if you're below the word
counts then you can write another
summary just capturing the main points
but there's nothing to conclude we're
not concluding you conclude when you
write an essay and you bring together
all your points and you say to conclude
I believe that this academic writing
task 1 is a description
it doesn't require a conclusion all
you're doing is summarizing describing
and comparing that's all you do
ok here's a great question from Shane
Jay how many times are we allowed to
repeat words like increased okay this is
a really good question increased let me
show you something
I wish I could make this bigger I'm
going to show you this anyway this is my
dictionary
so here's the Souris rather for increase
grow get bigger get larger become
greater enlarge expanse well rise climb
escalate sausage rocket shoot up spiral
improve intensify okay there are lots of
synonyms for a word like increase but
using one like rocket is not the right
context so you can't use rocket you
can't use get larger that doesn't make
sense you can't use the word improve
because that's like an opinion all
you're doing is describing remember you
can use one like climb so exports
climbed in 2007 or rose so when you're
choosing synonyms to use and you should
just make sure the correct I probably
could have used a few more synonyms but
I just feel that increases them is the
one that's right right imports rose yeah
I probably could have used the word rise
I'll tell you what's good for increase
rise climb even climbs a bit not quite
right because it's kind of personifying
and it's not writing rise and increase
and grow I think those three and they're
really the only three you should use and
when it comes to decrease well my
computer's not working so we can't do
that alright let's look at some other
questions
here's a question Jay how can we know
our weakness or strength you need to get
feedback one of the things that the
IELTS doesn't do which is really
frustrating is they give you your report
they say you got six point five in
writing and you think well why what did
I do wrong but you don't know you need
an expert to tell you and that's one of
the things we do in eetu languages we
examine we analyze your writing and we
give you feedback so you may need that
Iggy can we describe the x-axis rip
[Music]
okay here's the x-axis no you don't need
to describe you don't need to label the
graph the audience examiner knows what
the graph e is you're describing the
graph it's different to labeling the
graph you don't say the line graph has
an x axis the XS axis represents
billions of dollars sorry the y axis
represents billions of dollars the x
axis represents years you don't do that
there's no need to label the graph
you're describing the data in the graph
the IELTS exam going to know is what the
graph is and what the X and y-axis are
inclined inclined inclined increase it
exports inclined no that's wrong that's
not precise it's not precise usually we
we inclined I could give you a
definition of inclined that but it's not
the same as increased as a transitive
verb with an object make someone
disposed to know yeah it's you can't say
the exports in client no you can't say
declined you can't say declined because
they inclined don't ask me why this is
crazy stuff
ah good questions tonight thank you for
these questions are great okay here's
somebody's got a good point here the
overview carries a lot of points please
teach us how to write a good overview in
task 1 overall well I think they all
carrying good points but I think that's
summary sentence I'm worried about mine
I took Mike the IELTS ten days ago just
for fun my summary wasn't great I'm
worried about it anyway let's see what
happens
cool I think that's all what's going on
on YouTube is by the way I'm neglecting
new people because you're on YouTube you
should be in the live class with me so I
can pay attention to you
okay there's too many questions guys I
might leave it there actually thanks
very much for watching remember to sign
up to eat you language so you can get
notified about our live class intensive
schedule for writing and reading if
you're on YouTube do subscribe that's
all if you have any questions you can
email hello at e2 language calm cool
thanks very much for coming I'll see you
all soon
you